pynucastro/library/tabular/README.md, before:

These tabulated reaction rates are included along with library files
describing how the tables should be read.

Tabulated reactions of the form `A -> B` are supported, where the
rates are tabulated in a two-dimensional space of:

- the product of density and electron fraction
- temperature

This directory includes tabulated rates obtained from Suzuki et al.,
2016, ApJ 817:163, downloaded from
https://www.phys.chs.nihon-u.ac.jp/suzuki/data2/
https://web.archive.org/web/20210125194952/https://www.phys.chs.nihon-u.ac.jp/laboratory/suzuki

In addition, includes the tabulated rates from Fuller et.al 1982, discussed in:
https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1982ApJ...252..715F/abstract
reviewed and prepared by FRIB, NSCL-Charge-Exchange group
https://groups.frib.msu.edu/charge_exchange/weakrates.html

Also includes the tabulated rates obtained from Langanke et. al.,
2001, Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables, 79:1, downloaded from
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0092640X01908654?via%3Dihub

Finally, we include the sd-shell nuclei tabular rates from Oda et. al. 1994,
Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables, Volume 56, Issue 2 (1994); reviewed and
prepared by FRIB, NSCL-Charge-Exchange group
https://groups.frib.msu.edu/charge_exchange/weakrates.html

Commit message:

add Pruet & Fuller weak rates for A = 65 to 80 (#1091)

pynucastro/library/tabular/README.md, after:

These tabulated reaction rates are included along with library files
describing how the tables should be read.

Tabulated reactions of the form `A -> B` are supported, where the
rates are tabulated in a two-dimensional space of:

- the product of density and electron fraction
- temperature

This directory includes tabulated rates as followed:

* Suzuki et al., 2016, ApJ 817:163, downloaded from
  https://www.phys.chs.nihon-u.ac.jp/suzuki/data2/
  https://web.archive.org/web/20210125194952/https://www.phys.chs.nihon-u.ac.jp/laboratory/suzuki

* Fuller et.al 1982, discussed in:
  https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1982ApJ...252..715F/abstract
  reviewed and prepared by FRIB, NSCL-Charge-Exchange group
  https://groups.frib.msu.edu/charge_exchange/weakrates.html

* Langanke et. al., 2001, Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables, 79:1, downloaded from
  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0092640X01908654?via%3Dihub

* sd-shell nuclei tabular rates from Oda et. al. 1994,
  Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables, Volume 56, Issue 2 (1994); reviewed and
  prepared by FRIB, NSCL-Charge-Exchange group
  https://groups.frib.msu.edu/charge_exchange/weakrates.html

* Pruet & Fuller, 2023, ApJS, 149, 189, with the rate table downloaded from
  IOP: https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/376753,
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/376753/fulltext/
